.\" Manpage for lxtxt(1)
.TH LXTXT 1 "2026-02-28" "lxtxt 1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lxtxt \- a modal text editor inspired by VIM, written in Go
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
lxtxt <file>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLXTXT\fR is a small modal text editor (written in Go) inspired by the modal editing model of \fBVi\fR/\fBVim\fR.
It is primarily used to edit plain text files.

.SH MODES
With \fBLXTXT\fR being a modal text editor, there are multiple editing modes each with their own purpose.
Pressing \fBEsc\fR from any mode returns you to \fBNORMAL\fR mode.

.TP
\fBNORMAL\fR
This is the default mode. Use navigation and control commands here. Commands are entered
directly (single keystrokes or keys). You may also prefix many commands with a number
to repeat the action multiple times (for example, \fB5j\fR moves down five lines).

Common commands available in \fBNORMAL\fR mode:

.TP
\fBarrow keys / h j k l\fR
Move the cursor one position in the indicated direction. Arrow keys and \fBh\fR\fBj\fR\fBk\fR\fBl\fR are supported.

.TP
\fB_\fR
Move to the beginning of the current line.

.TP
\fB$\fR
Move to the end of the current line.

.TP
\fBD\fR
Delete the current line.

.TP
\fBQ\fR
Quit the editor without saving changes.

.TP
\fBW\fR
Write the buffer to the file (save).

.TP
\fB!\fR
Discard changes and revert the buffer to the initial state when the file was opened.

.TP
\fBi\fR
Enter \fBINSERT\fR mode.

.TP
\fBNote\fR
In most actions you can type a number before the action to repeat that command multiple times.

.TP
\fBINSERT\fR

Primarily used for inserting and editing text directly. Typing printable characters inserts them at the cursor location.
Arrow keys are available to move while inserting.

.TP
\fBCOMMAND\fR

Used for executing commands. The following commands are available by default:

.TP
\fBw\fR
Write the buffer to the file (save).

.TP
\fBq\fR or \fBq!\fR
Quit the editor.

.TP
\fBwq\fR
Write the buffer to the file then quit.

.TP
\fBsed\fR <regexp> <replaceTxt>
Find and replace in the current buffer using a regular expression.

.SH USAGE NOTES
.IP
- Press \fBEsc\fR to return to \fBNORMAL\fR mode from any other mode.
.IP
- Command-repeat prefixes (numeric counts) are supported for many \fBNORMAL\fR commands.
.IP
- Some features described in help text (notably the \fBCOMMAND\fR mode and installation helpers)
may be under development; consult the project's repository or changelog for updates.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The program follows conventional exit codes:
.TP
0
Success (file saved or normal exit).
.TP
Non-zero
An error occurred (for example, file could not be opened or written).

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
lxtxt /path/to/file.txt
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
\fLXTXT\fR was created by Logan Savage, with significant usage of TUI libraries by Charm.

.SH BUGS
This is an early project and should not be relied on for mission-critical work. Refer to the project's issue tracker for known bugs.

.PP
For more information and the latest development status, check the project's source repository.
